README.md, before:

# Overview
`repo2vec` enables you to chat with your codebase by simply running two python scripts:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt

export GITHUB_REPO_NAME=...
export OPENAI_API_KEY=...
export PINECONE_API_KEY=...
export PINECONE_INDEX_NAME=...

python src/index.py $GITHUB_REPO_NAME --pinecone_index_name=$PINECONE_INDEX_NAME
python src/chat.py $GITHUB_REPO_NAME --pinecone_index_name=$PINECONE_INDEX_NAME
```
This will bring up a `gradio` app where you can ask questions about your codebase. The assistant responses always include GitHub links to the documents retrieved for each query.

Here is, for example, a conversation about the repo [Storia-AI/image-eval](https://github.com/Storia-AI/image-eval):
![screenshot](assets/chat_screenshot.png)

# Under the hood

## Indexing the repo
The `src/index.py` script performs the following steps:
1. **Clones a GitHub repository**. See [RepoManager](src/repo_manager.py).
    - Make sure to set the `GITHUB_TOKEN` environment variable for private repositories.
2. **Chunks files**. See [Chunker](src/chunker.py).
    - For code files, we implement a special `CodeChunker` that takes the parse tree into account.
3. **Batch-embeds chunks**. See [Embedder](src/embedder.py).
    - By default, we use OpenAI's [batch embedding API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/batch/overview), which is much faster and cheaper than the regular synchronous embedding API.
4. **Stores embeddings in a vector store**. See [VectorStore](src/vector_store.py).
    - By default, we use [Pinecone](https://pinecone.io) as a vector store, but you can easily plug in your own.

## Chatting via RAG
The `src/chat.py` brings up a [Gradio app](https://www.gradio.app/) with a chat interface as shown above. We use [LangChain](https://langchain.com) to define a RAG chain which, given a user query about the repository:

1. Rewrites the query to be self-contained based on previous queries
2. Embeds the rewritten query using OpenAI embeddings
3. Retrieves relevant documents from the vector store
4. Calls an OpenAI LLM to respond to the user query based on the retrieved documents.

The sources are conveniently surfaced in the chat and linked directly to GitHub.

# Extensions & Contributions
We built the code purposefully modular so that you can plug in your desired embeddings, LLM and vector stores providers by simply implementing the relevant abstract classes.

Feel free to send feature requests to [founders@storia.ai](mailto:founders@storia.ai) or make a pull request!

Commit message:

Add inclusion and exclusion sets.

README.md, after:

# Overview
`repo2vec` enables you to index your codebase and chat with it by simply running two python scripts:
```
pip install -r requirements.txt

export GITHUB_REPO_NAME=...
export OPENAI_API_KEY=...
export PINECONE_API_KEY=...
export PINECONE_INDEX_NAME=...

python src/index.py $GITHUB_REPO_NAME --pinecone_index_name=$PINECONE_INDEX_NAME
python src/chat.py $GITHUB_REPO_NAME --pinecone_index_name=$PINECONE_INDEX_NAME
```
This will index your entire codebase in a vector DB, then bring up a `gradio` app where you can ask questions about it. The assistant responses always include GitHub links to the documents retrieved for each query.

To make the gradio chat app accessible publicly, you can set `--share=true`:
```
python src/chat.py $GITHUB_REPO_NAME --share=true ...
```

Here is, for example, a conversation about the repo [Storia-AI/image-eval](https://github.com/Storia-AI/image-eval):
![screenshot](assets/chat_screenshot.png)

# Under the hood

## Indexing the repo
The `src/index.py` script performs the following steps:
1. **Clones a GitHub repository**. See [RepoManager](src/repo_manager.py).
    - Make sure to set the `GITHUB_TOKEN` environment variable for private repositories.
2. **Chunks files**. See [Chunker](src/chunker.py).
    - For code files, we implement a special `CodeChunker` that takes the parse tree into account.
3. **Batch-embeds chunks**. See [Embedder](src/embedder.py).
    - By default, we use OpenAI's [batch embedding API](https://platform.openai.com/docs/guides/batch/overview), which is much faster and cheaper than the regular synchronous embedding API.
4. **Stores embeddings in a vector store**. See [VectorStore](src/vector_store.py).
    - By default, we use [Pinecone](https://pinecone.io) as a vector store, but you can easily plug in your own.

Note you can specify an inclusion or exclusion set for the file extensions you want indexed. To specify an extension inclusion set, you can add the `--include` flag:
```
python src/index.py repo-org/repo-name --include=/path/to/file/with/extensions
```
Conversely, to specify an extension exclusion set, you can add the `--exclude` flag:
```
python src/index.py repo-org/repo-name --exclude=src/sample-exclude.txt
```
Extensions must be specified one per line, in the form `.ext`.

## Chatting via RAG
The `src/chat.py` brings up a [Gradio app](https://www.gradio.app/) with a chat interface as shown above. We use [LangChain](https://langchain.com) to define a RAG chain which, given a user query about the repository:

1. Rewrites the query to be self-contained based on previous queries
2. Embeds the rewritten query using OpenAI embeddings
3. Retrieves relevant documents from the vector store
4. Calls an OpenAI LLM to respond to the user query based on the retrieved documents.

The sources are conveniently surfaced in the chat and linked directly to GitHub.

# Extensions & Contributions
We built the code purposefully modular so that you can plug in your desired embeddings, LLM and vector stores providers by simply implementing the relevant abstract classes.

Feel free to send feature requests to [founders@storia.ai](mailto:founders@storia.ai) or make a pull request!
